[THEME MUSIC]
>> REGINA MEREDITH: Raise your
hand if you've found yourself
asking the question,
is that all there is?
This is the question Itzhak
Beery was asking himself
as he sat in his office in
New York City, surrounded
by his accolades and awards
in the advertising industry
yet feeling oddly empty.
This feeling propelled
him onto a path he never
would have dreamt
possible-- that of a shaman
in the Yachak tradition.
He's with us to tell us
how his life was upended
and what took shape
on the other side.
It's so funny because when
we think of shamanism,
we think of things
like shapeshifting.
And as I was looking at your
life and reading your book,
I realize you are a
shapeshifter in the extreme.
>> ITZHAK BEERY: Now
that you are saying it,
I have to agree with you.
It's quite a journey.
And if you put it
this way, it's true.
My life really shapeshifted
from an atheist skeptic.
>> REGINA: Atheist skeptic.
Yeah.
>> BEERY: Into a believer
in the shamanic tradition
or in the spiritual and in the
connection between the unseen
and the seen world.
>> REGINA: That's not
what you came from.
>> BEERY: No.
>> REGINA: Let's talk
about what you came from.
Will start in New York.
So you were kind of high-end
stuff in the advertising
industry-- high-end
clients, glamour, cosmetics.
>> BEERY: Yes, I had clients
like that-- Gucci, Revlon,
Ferragamo.
And I worked with a lot of
airlines and other clients
like that.
But at the end,
it'll keep you empty.
The meaning of life is not
really in that industry.
It's really what
makes you happy.
And my career started as an
artist, as a visual artist.
And I had relatively small
success in that, too.
But I guess the
real shapeshifting
began by coincidence, to me.
Or the way I saw it as a--
>> REGINA: A lot of big turns
of events in life appear to be
coincidence to begin with.
>> BEERY: Yes.
>> REGINA: But let's go back to
your roots then in childhood.
You were raised in a
kibbutz in Israel, right?
>> BEERY: Yeah.
I was born and raised in the
kibbutz near the Sea of Galilee
in Israel by the slope of a
mountain, Mount Gilboa, which
is a very famous
mountain in the Bible.
So we grew up with
a big connection
to the biblical
time, in many ways,
but never with religion
aspects of that.
>> REGINA: In fact, it was
interesting in your book,
you talk about you were part of
an experimental community that
was really more looking at
the good of the group over
the individual, more
socialistic in nature.
>> BEERY: Yes.
That was the attempt
to create new humans
and new human
consciousness, where
the work of the land and
the work of the community
is more important than the
individual's aspiration.
>> REGINA: And did that
naturally incorporate atheism
as a backdrop?
>> BEERY: Yes, because
if you remember,
all these people who built
the kibbutz ran away from
their home in Poland and Russia,
from very religious homes.
It was only recently
that I discovered
that my great grandfather was
a very famous Kabbalistic rabbi
and healer.
It was a secret.
Nobody talked about it.
>> REGINA: What happened in
that time that created the need
to turn away from the
original religious practices?
I know even in Israel
when I was there--
it's been probably
almost 10 years now--
I realized that
most of the populace
is secular, not religious.
What is it?
What were they
turning away from?
>> BEERY: They rebel against
the control or the old ideas
of religion.
There was a new generations
between the two wars, the First
World War and the second one,
who wanted to be more secular.
They wanted to find new ideas.
The communication in the world
started to be more available,
and communism or the
idea of socialism
started to fly around Europe.
And those children really
rebelled against their parents,
which is very natural
because every child rebelled
against their parents.
>> REGINA: We did
it, just differently,
in San Francisco and California.
But yes.
>> BEERY: Exactly.
And I expect my children
to do that, too.
Each generation is trying
to find its own path.
And for them was to leave
their parents behind, leave
the religion behind,
leave all of that behind
and come back to a new
land and become farmers,
to be grounded in the
natural experience,
to return to the Hebrew
or the biblical land,
but not in the spiritual,
but more as land workers,
to really dig themselves
into the land.
So in the kibbutz, we celebrated
a lot of the Jewish holidays.
But we celebrated them
in a different way.
It was a celebration
of the four seasons.
It was a celebration of the
fruits and of the work we--
>> REGINA: The
bounty of your labor.
>> BEERY: Exactly.
So it didn't have
any religion aspect.
And even if we learned
or studied the Bible,
it was more for history.
It wasn't about the
religion aspect of it.
And we lived-- our
kibbutz was on top
of a sixth century or fifth
century Hebrew settlement
there.
And we grew up with Roman
coins and with stone arrows
and with shreds of old tools.
We sat in the caves of
the old ancient people.
So for us, the fifth
century and the 20th century
were very, very close,
and we didn't really
understand how close we are.
I only understand it now because
I'm doing this shamanic work,
and we're working with
a lot the ancestry
aspects of spirituality.
But we grew up with
that, with the spirit
of the mountain where King
Saul cursed the mountain.
And the great army chief Gideon
was fighting the Plishtim.
So there was a lot
of that around us.
>> REGINA: The spirit
of that around you.
And yet at the same time,
this comes back later
on because you were
used to digging around
in the dirt with little
worms and microbes
under your fingernails and
the land, which is ultimately
what you ended up turning
toward when it was time
for you to have your
coincidental experience
and be called elsewhere.
>> BEERY: Yes.
And I think that's the
shapeshifter you're
talking about because I'm
shapeshifting into something
that feels familiar to me
from the childhood, maybe.
But I'm taking it into
a different level.
And I think that I'm so grateful
for the way you put it together
because in many ways,
I'm combining it now
with my ancestry,
which is making peace
with that part in
me that doesn't
have to hate religion or the
spirituality but accept it.
And my great grandfather
devoted his life
to the fight between
good and evil,
which is something that
in the shamanic tradition
is a very strong practice.
And I ended up doing that.
I'm doing a lot of work with
extractions and possesions
and work with evils.
And even in the
ayahuasca ceremony
that I had in the
jungle in Brazil,
I had experienced this with the
messages from those spirits.
So it's quite amazing to
me that I am returning--
>> REGINA: To your lineage.
>> BEERY: Exactly.
>> REGINA: Now, you
had also, as a youth,
your own paranormal experiences
that you tended to ignore
or dismiss.
But these aptitudes
were already starting
to develop in you at a
young age, it sounds like.
>> BEERY: I think
that they were.
But I think I was ashamed
of them or afraid of them.
>> REGINA: Your comrades
may not have appreciated it.
>> BEERY: You remember, we grew
up in a kibbutz where everybody
had to be like everybody else.
>> REGINA: That's
what I'm saying.
Yeah.
>> BEERY: And so anything
that-- if you were too sensitive
or you're too
dreamy or different,
it really didn't look very good.
And so you tried to mold
yourself to other people's
behavior and expectations.
So in many ways, I
learned to suppress that.
And then when I did have
these feelings or emotions
or visions, I kind
of dismissed them.
And I think that
it's not just me.
I think that it's every
child that grew up in America
today feel very much like that.
Our society is not celebrating
the ability of children
to see visions and talk
to imaginary friends,
to their power
animals, in many ways.
We give them stuffed animals.
But when children develop that
emotional connection to them,
we're taking it away from
them because this is childish.
But this is the way children
start to understand the world.
And they know it, I
think, better than we do.
>> REGINA: Yeah,
before it's shut down.
>> BEERY: Exactly.
>> REGINA: OK.
Let's get you out of
the office in New York
City and your Revlon contract
and all that sort of thing.
And then how did
you end up-- what
was the coincidence
that happened,
and then how did you
end up connecting
with John Perkins, whom
I've also interviewed,
and then also Michael Harner?
How did that whole
journey begin?
>> BEERY: In my late 30s, I
started to feel really empty.
And I was asking
myself, what's next?
What is it that I'm here for?
And I walked around for a
couple of years wondering.
And I didn't really find why.
And the craziness happened
because a friend of mine
invited me to go with
him to Kalani, to Hawaii,
the big island.
There was a men's retreat there.
And he says, come.
Let's go.
He was, at that time, in
the middle of his divorce,
and I was depressed.
And I said, why not?
Let's do that.
And I didn't have the money.
I had three kids.
And my wife is a dancer,
so she wasn't making money.
And business and people
to pay salaries for I
could not imagine.
And the coincidence happened
that a person I know--
and I owe her so much--
offered me money for ticket.
I don't know how, where
this idea came to her.
But I took that
money, and I went.
And it really changed my life.
I had this incredible experience
there, many experiences there,
that I wrote in the book.
And I started to see the
world in a different way.
But I think that
something very important
happened was that before
my flight to Hawaii,
I could not-- I mean, I
really want to have a book.
It's 10 and a half
hours from New York.
I needed a book to read.
So I was looking for
a book about Hawaii
to understand Hawaii more.
And so I ran into
Barnes & Noble Books.
And I ran to the new releases.
My car, my taxi was
waiting for me outside.
And I ran to the new
release books, and I said,
could you help me find a book?
Maybe about Hawaii?
And he says, oh,
there's a book now here.
And I looked at it,
and I just took it.
It was Hank Wesselman.
>> REGINA: I love this part.
Hank Wesselman.
gt;gt; BEERY: "Spiritwalker."
And it really changed my life.
>> REGINA: Oh, yeah.
That was a really profound book.
>> BEERY: And I love Hank.
He's a wonderful,
wonderful teacher.
But I think that
what happened was
that I was sitting on the plane,
and I was starting to read it.
And I started to feel that there
are some answers, that he's
answering my questions.
And I started to really
cry because I finally
read something that really
resonated deep into my soul.
And that was so beautiful.
And I couldn't stop reading
it until I finished it.
And in the last
chapter or so, there
is a description he
wrote about a workshop he
took with Michael Harner.
Now, I never heard
of shamanism before.
I never heard of Michael Harner.
He's a big star now.
But I never heard of it.
But I came back to New York.
And then two months later, I
took the New York Open Center
catalog, and the Michael
Harner workshop was there.
So I said, well, that's
too much of a coincidence.
So I jumped into the workshop.
And I was very skeptical.
I saw 200 people sitting there,
and I said, this is not for me.
This is all crazy people.
And what am I doing here?
This is not for me.
But the experience
that I went through,
it was so deep and so moving.
And they resonate so
strongly with my partner
that I could not deny them.
And I said, if there
is some truth to it,
I really need to explore that.
And that's how I took
some more workshops.
And then one of those
workshops was John Perkins,
a year or so later.
And John is wonderful.
He's full of enthusiasm
and knowledge of the Shuar
and the people of the Andes.
And I just knew I had to go.
I went to my wife, and
I said, I have to go.
And she said, you must be crazy.
How can you leave us?
I mean, no money, no work.
>> REGINA: Got to go.
>> BEERY: I said,
I just got to go.
And I always tell
these people-- people
who said I don't have money
and I don't have time--
because if your heart,
guts tells you to do,
you've got to follow your heart.
>> REGINA: Absolutely.
>> BEERY: And I went.
And it really, again,
shifted my life.
And I met there Jose Joaquin
Pineda, who became my teacher.
>> REGINA: Don Jose.
No, not Don Jose.
>> BEERY: Don Jose.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> BEERY: Yeah, Don
Jose Joaquin Pineda,
who two years later became--
I became his apprentice.
And I had a series of very
profound healings with him,
with visions.
And one of them was
the initiation vision
on the mountains, which I
shapeshifted into the eagle,
which is in part of that book.
And then I was always asking
myself if this is for me.
I was still very skeptic.
I never really took it as a--
I was in the middle of it.
I didn't have the perspective
of time to really look at it.
And it took him
two or three years
to push me to start
to do the work myself.
>> REGINA: He was seeing
something in you that you
didn't see in yourself.
>> BEERY: Absolutely.
Absolutely.
And there are many times I
still don't see it in myself.
I still think that--
what did he see?
>> REGINA: Well, you have
extreme sensitivity, for one.
>> BEERY: Yes, but there's
also another element, I think.
You can be sensitive.
But you have to be powerful.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> BEERY: You have to know how
to cut and to be a warrior with
keeping your sensitivity, too.
And I never believed that
I had that power in me
to go so deep and so
profound, like he did.
I always admire him.
He's such an amazing Yachak,
comes from a lineage,
like five generations of--
>> REGINA: I've heard about
Don Jose through others.
Yes.
>> BEERY: Oh.
He's powerful.
Very strong, masculine,
and knowledgeable.
And you can't mess up with him.
>> REGINA: He doesn't
suffer fools gladly.
>> BEERY: No, not at all.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
So you had to play the fool
a time or two, I suppose,
in the beginning.
>> BEERY: No, I never did.
>> REGINA: No?
Never happened?
You never tripped up?
Good.
>> BEERY: No, I never did.
It was very strange because
I never asked him questions.
When I tried, he looked
at me in such a way
that I stopped on my heels.
So I learned not
to ask questions,
not to expect anything.
And he gave me more and more
to do in the ceremonies.
And really over
lunch and dinners,
we-- he never really
taught me in the same way
that-- he never did
a workshop for me.
It's through being with him
that I learned all of that.
And that, I think,
that's what people today
are so missing is the direct
connection with the souls
of the people who are
coming from the earth
and doing this work.
They want to go
to one workshop--
>> REGINA: Yeah, for
a weekend and get it.
>> BEERY: And then
they become shamans.
It doesn't work this way.
You really have to
feel it, own it.
And I was really lucky because
I had this work with Don Jose.
And then I worked with Ipupiara,
who is a Brazilian shaman,
for 12 years.
I assisted him and
worked with him
and worked on trips with him.
And he was such a dear friend.
He passed away a few years ago.
And he really taught me a
lot about Amazonian healing
and traditions.
So I'm very incredibly
lucky in that way.
But when I look at it, I
never went to Ecuador trip
hoping that I would
become a shaman.
>> REGINA: Right.
You weren't striving for that.
>> BEERY: Not at all.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
They chose you.
>> BEERY: And when I
read, many years ago,
Carlos Castaneda's book, and he
met this shaman and becomes his
apprentice, I said, that
happened to only strange
people.
It would never happen to me.
But why me?
But it does happen to all of
us if you are open, if you
allow yourself to accept that.
And it may not be
Jose Joaquin Pineda.
It may not be Ipupiara.
But it might be somebody else.
You've got to be really
open-hearted to accept it.
>> REGINA: So let's talk
about something we are talking
at the lunch table about earlier
today because it's a little--
I was joking with you initially.
But we were talking about
the ayahuasca experience.
And one part of the
experience for a lot of people
is that whatever's going on
in their stomach comes up.
And you were saying that
unbeknownst to most people,
it appears, the shaman
often examine the contents
of that person's stomach.
Now, I've never
heard this before.
Talk to us about that,
about what happened to you,
and what you
discovered about that.
>> BEERY: I did not read all
the books about ayahuasca.
And I didn't really see all
the movies about ayahuasca.
So I don't know if
they did not say it.
But there are certain
things that people do not
mention-- that ayahuasca
is a healing brew or tea.
And it mostly is to
alkalize your stomach
or your whole system.
The combination of the natema
or the vine and the chacruna
leaves create this
bitter drink that clear
and cleans your stomach.
And that is the first
priority-- to remove bacteria,
to remove parasites, to
remove all this stuff that
is in their food.
They eat raw food.
They don't have refrigerations.
They don't cook.
I mean it's all there.
So this is the main thing.
And when you purge,
you purge the physical
and this emotional, spiritual
content of your stomach
because in the stomach we
hold fear, trauma, emotions,
memories.
Everything is in our stomach.
So the shamans or the
ayahuascaro-- now,
I want to also make
distinction between--
>> REGINA: The shaman
and ayahuascaro?
>> BEERY: Yes.
It is very important
because there
are some people who are
trained to hand ayahuasca
to their clients.
But that doesn't
make them shamans.
They may not see spirit.
They may not talk to spirit.
They may not know, even,
how to manipulate spirit
to heal the clients in the
process of the ayahuasca
journey.
They know how to hold space.
That's a different place.
Shamans in the Amazon
give ayahuasca.
They're not ayahuascaro.
And so they work through you,
with you, through the process,
through their icaros,
and through working
with the spirit.
And they heal you
one on one, not 60
or 80 people at the same time.
And so they are very in tune
to what's going on with you.
>> REGINA: They can see where
you're going and the beings,
oftentimes, that you're being
confronted with and so forth.
>> BEERY: Yes.
>> REGINA: It's like they go
into the journey with you.
>> BEERY: Exactly.
Not only that, but
they see what you do.
I had this ability, too.
And I was journeying
with another person
when I was observing him.
And I worked with his
emotion, with the loss
of his mother and whatever.
That's very important.
And so the shamans, when you
puke your-- he goes there.
And he sees on the ground
what you are purging.
And by the quantity,
the quality,
and what's in it--
you remember, he's
also on ayahuasca-- he sees the
spirit that comes out of you.
He can determine in what
kind of state you are.
Now, for me, after doing a
few more ayahuasca journeys
in Brazil, my purge was clear.
So he offered me to become his
apprentice, which I declined
because it's not my way.
But when you find ways to
clear your emotional world
and your health, then you can
become a shaman, a healer.
>> REGINA: So yeah,
it's interesting.
I'd never heard those
distinctions before.
OK.
Now let's go into what--
some of the modalities
that you were trained in.
And we can start-- where
is the best place to start?
With all of the various--
I mean, candle reading.
Let's start with candle reading.
I found candle reading
really an interesting concept
in your book.
And they taught you how
to do candle readings.
Do you still do them?
>> BEERY: I do
them all the time.
And this is the first
session of healing,
is to be able to
do candle reading.
>> REGINA: Now, explain to
everyone what candle reading
is.
>> BEERY: Candle reading
is probably the fastest way
to diagnose physical,
emotional, and spiritual element
of the client the first
time he comes to you.
And it's a technique
that many of the Yachaks
or the shamans of the Andes
are using all the time.
They use, mostly,
two techniques.
One is the candle reading.
One is a palm reading.
Both techniques are used.
And I use it in combination
because many times
what you see in the candle
reflects in the hands.
And it gives--
>> REGINA: Some validation.
>> BEERY: Validation
of information.
And sometimes it gives
you a new observation
because it enlarges the
scope of the diagnostic.
>> REGINA: So explain how the
candle ceremony or reading
works.
>> BEERY: So the wax, when
you rub it on your body,
absorbs your physical--
>> REGINA: So you
take a candle, right?
>> BEERY: Yes.
>> REGINA: And then the client
would just kind of rub it up
against your body.
>> BEERY: Yes.
You start from the
top of your head,
over your face, your left
hand, your right hand,
your entire body.
>> REGINA: So it
gets your energy.
>> BEERY: And you close your
eyes, and you concentrate.
You bring all the issues and
the problems and the questions
that you came for
healing into the candle.
And the candle absorbs it.
Now, the candles come from
the same manufacturer.
There are 72 in each box.
And every time you
light a candle,
it's different because--
>> REGINA: And so explain this,
the burning pattern and how you
read it.
>> BEERY: So it's
the burning pattern.
It's the colors.
It's the movement of the wick.
It's the dripping of the wax.
It's the size and the
shape of the flame.
I'm writing about it.
I wrote about it in this
book with a little bit of it.
But I'm going to extend on
it in my next book, which
is going to be about a healing.
And I'm going to really
do step-by-step on it
because I think it's
really important.
>> REGINA: It's fascinating.
>> BEERY: It is fascinating.
And I'm teaching
it in my workshops
because I believe that
people should use it.
It's such a-- not
easy, I would say.
But it took me
two years to learn
because nobody taught me that.
>> REGINA: You observed
it through who?
>> BEERY: Don Jose
Joaquin Pineda.
>> REGINA: OK.
>> BEERY: Well, but he
is teaching the old way.
You sit behind
me, and you watch.
So I sat for two years
behind his back and watched.
And I was like admiring
his amazing ability,
wondering why I am so
stupid and I can't get it.
>> REGINA: I remember
reading that.
You're just like,
this isn't for me.
I can't do it.
>> BEERY: I can't do it.
And then one day,
this woman walked in.
And I looked at her
candle, and I said,
Jose, she has problems
with her stomach.
And he says, shh.
I knew I got it.
>> REGINA: And so after that,
you started initiating them
on your own?
>> BEERY: Well, after that, I
continued to watch him behind
his back.
But then I understood.
I got the concept.
And Ipupiara added
to it another layers
of the colors and
shapes, which is more
in the Brazilian tradition.
And so I brought both Don Jose
and Ipupiara-- by the way,
they knew each other.
They were together at
Omega in the gathering
of shamans with John Perkins,
brought them together.
You know, Don Jose
Joaquin Pineda
was a teacher of
John Perkins, too.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> BEERY: I did not know
that for many years.
>> REGINA: Yes.
He was with the Shuar.
Yes.
>> BEERY: Yes.
So it's a very strong
connection there, too.
So I brought these two
teachings together.
And now I teach
it in my courses.
And I have people in
Amsterdam, in Turkey, in Italy,
in Israel that are healers
that are using it now.
And so my mission is really
to bring that tool to--
>> REGINA: And it's
specifically diagnostic.
>> BEERY: It is diagnostic.
Yeah.
And it's so powerful
because it's so simple.
And you go-- if you
see somebody's trauma,
you can diagnose to it the exact
time or the exact year of when
the trauma happened.
>> REGINA: Really?
Through that same modality?
>> BEERY: Yes.
And you can see sexual trauma.
You can see emotional.
You can see ancestors.
You can see people at work.
You can see their homes.
You can travel.
I mean, it's all
in that because you
have to remember that
it's based on the concept
that around each of
us, there's an energy.
>> REGINA: Sure.
The aura has lots
of information.
>> BEERY: We call it egg shell
or the energy field around you
surrounded by a shield with the
positive ions that go around
and the negative.
And they protect
you like the same
as the atmosphere around
the globe or like the egg.
So in that energy field,
we keep our memories.
We keep our traumas.
Everything is around
you-- your grandmother.
So everything is here.
It's just the question
is, can you see it?
And what do you do with it?
So I see.
So I can speak to
those spirits, and I
can invite them to give
me information, what
the messages for people are.
But I believe that every
person can do that.
>> REGINA: So when you're
doing the candle readings
and the diagnosis, you're
also-- because you're tapping
into that matrix
of all information,
you're getting feedback and
also suggestions from the other
spirits or beings
or aspect of self?
>> BEERY: Yeah.
I had a great, great, great
grandmother from Sicily
came to one of my clients.
And she was complimenting
me for working with her
because she needed to
give her a ceremony
to do with a group of women.
And so she was teaching
me this fire ceremony
that they were doing in Sicily.
>> REGINA: A fire ceremony?
>> BEERY: Fire
ceremony at midnight.
And she showed me
how they put the fire
and walk on the fire and the
stones that are all around it
and how they keep all
the energies there.
But it's about empowering women.
But it's at midnight,
when the husband's asleep.
>> REGINA: Interesting.
>> BEERY: And that woman,
she became a healer.
>> REGINA: Tell us-- maybe
give us one interesting example
of exactly what you were
seeing in the candle reading
of an individual and how it
showed itself within the flame
and the wax and everything,
just so we can have a portrait
in our mind of what
that looks like.
I know you've done
thousands of them.
Just choose one that
pops into your head.
>> BEERY: I like this example
because it was so mundane
in many ways.
This woman came to me.
She was working with a
big bank in New York.
She was executive secretary.
And she and her immediate
boss got into trouble
because she found
some irregularities
in her bookkeeping or something.
And her boss wanted to
fire her or to demote her.
And I was looking
at the candle, and I
saw this guy wearing brown,
short guy with brown suit.
And he said he's
going to protect her.
And then there was another
guy with a black suit,
tall with black hair.
The other guy was bald.
So I asked her if she
had another boss who
liked to wear brown
suits, and he likes her.
And there's another guy
who doesn't with the black,
da da da.
And she said, yes.
How do you know?
I said, well, they are here.
I said, he said he
wants to protect you.
And she says, I can't go to him.
I mean, I'm a secretary.
Why I can go to--
I said, he likes you.
He said he's going
to protect you.
And that guy, he's going
to create problems.
>> REGINA: The black-haired
and black-suited guy.
>> BEERY: He's going
to create problems.
And I said, you go next week.
You go to him, and you
speak to the short, brown--
and it happened.
And he told me what
to tell her, that he's
going to be her boss with her.
So the whole work happened
exactly like he said.
>> REGINA: So people don't just
come for physical maladies.
They can be spiritual,
emotional, mental, anything.
>> BEERY: Yes.
Well, in shamanism, there
is no difference between--
>> REGINA: No separation.
I see.
>> BEERY: Yeah, between
the physical, emotional,
and spiritual world, the
disease, the physical disease,
is a demonstration.
>> REGINA: Well, that's
what I was wondering.
Did she have some physical
symptoms that were going on?
>> BEERY: No.
>> REGINA: OK.
So for her it was more of
an emotional, spiritual,
or whatever.
>> BEERY: Yeah.
That particular woman was--
there's another technique
that I'm talking about there
is about the ethics seeing.
I had a decision with her.
In that technique,
you pass your hands
on different parts of the body.
And you're listening to the
different sides, to the heart,
to the male, female,
and your sexual--
and you can really tell.
And there are images that
are coming into your mind.
And the idea is that
whatever comes to your mind,
you share it with the clients,
and they can share with you.
And when I was touching
her female part,
I saw her as a 16-year-old
girl, had an abortion.
And when I shared
it with her, she
broke down because it was the
first person that she ever--
>> REGINA: Had to
share that with.
Yeah.
>> BEERY: Share with.
She never shared
with her mother.
Never shared with
anyone in the world.
And then I put my hand
on the muscular side,
and I saw the guy, the
17-year-old boyfriend.
And I described him exactly
what it is and what he told her.
And it was such a great healing,
the release of that secret.
And that's, I think,
the power of shamanism
because you can go
so deep so quickly.
And you heal those soul, or
the part of the soul that
are ashamed of themselves.
They're not willing to come out
and be a person in the world.
So that release of acknowledging
her misfortune at that time
was an amazing--
>> REGINA: Freed
energy up in her.
>> BEERY: Yes.
>> REGINA: Now, OK, before
we get onto the Aztec seeing
and some other things--
you're in New York City.
And you're doing candle
readings and Aztec readings.
How are things at home?
How'd your home life go?
>> BEERY: Well, when I started
to do that or walk on that
path, it really brought a
lot of anxiety in my family.
>> REGINA: I would guess.
>> BEERY: All of a sudden,
Daddy's not there much.
All of a sudden, he's going
to these places, crazy places.
He's doing things
that nobody does.
What happened to him?
Well, I was in a midlife crisis.
But for them--
>> REGINA: That was like
buying a red Corvette.
You just happened to
take off for the Andes.
>> BEERY: I prefer
that, by the way.
>> REGINA: Yes, of course.
>> BEERY: But for them, it was
a little tough because they saw
me through these experiences.
And I tried to bring these
experiences back to them.
Like I came one time from
the Shuars, the Amazon.
And I brought this
water canteen.
And I opened it up.
And there was like red
ants in the whole thing.
And they're spreading
all around the house.
And so they really understood.
They had this
visceral experience
of what it means to be
bitten by fire ants.
And we still talk
about that experience
because it was so frightening.
And I brought elements from
there and drums and feathers
and spears.
>> REGINA: So they thought
you'd gone off the deep end.
>> BEERY: Exactly.
And especially my daughter.
She thought that
I'm drug addict,
doing ayahuasca and all that.
And I understand.
They were afraid.
They saw me through
these changes.
But I think it's changed
because when I started to teach,
when I started to do
healing, and they started
to hear that people
are benefiting from it,
they started to get used
to it and proud of it.
And I think that-- I was
talking to that with my wife.
And I think that I gave
them a really great example
to follow their heart.
>> REGINA: Yes.
What a beautiful
gift for all of them.
>> BEERY: Yeah.
>> REGINA: And your story
for others, as well.
OK.
Now, let's go back into
some of the modalities.
You mentioned Aztec seeing.
And it sounds like
these modalities,
the common theme
here is the ability
to access the information
within another person's field.
>> BEERY: Yes.
And Ipupiara used to say
that we are all shamans.
Every person that watches us and
every person in this universe--
and not just every person but
every animal and everything
that is alive-- have
visions or sees.
It's not exclusive to humans.
But humans have the
responsibility to use it.
And I think that
we all have that.
We are born with it.
It's in our DNA.
And you can heal in
many different ways.
You can heal with your voice.
You can heal with
the words you say.
You can heal with a touch.
You can heal with your hugs.
And we are all dreaming.
We all have deja vus.
We all have experiences
that we cannot explain--
when the phone rings,
you know who it is.
It's very common.
But what's common also is
that we are all denying it.
And I think it's this
book that I wrote,
that that's the gift of
shamanism is to really
give permission to people to
embrace it, use it, and verify
it, that it's not a [INAUDIBLE].
It's not the stories of the
grandmothers or the grandmother
stories.
It's real.
And the thing that
we have to remember,
that the survival of our
species depend on our ability
to connect between the worlds,
between the unseen world
and what we call the real world.
That's really what
kept us humans
for so many years on this earth.
And the danger that
we are now living
in this digital
society-- and that's
what I wrote in this book,
about the big shutdown
of the senses-- is that we
are depending more and more
on our tablets, on our
iPhones, on our computers.
We're really shutting
down our senses.
So everybody goes
to their iPhone
and finds out what
the temperature is.
Nobody puts their
hands out the window.
Somebody reminded
me yesterday as I
was talking to him about
the people in Sri Lanka,
on the island when
the tsunami happened,
they were so connected to the
land and to their weather,
to the spirit, they
knew the tsunami comes.
But the people in the
cities, the people
who were disconnected, stayed
on the beach in the hotels.
>> REGINA: Yes.
Their senses
weren't registering.
>> BEERY: So that's the danger,
in this symbolic, small way,
for us not listening to nature,
not listening to the forces
of spirit, not connecting to
our innate ability to see.
>> REGINA: OK.
So now I'm going
to backtrack a bit.
And you just made mention
of it a while back.
But let's go to the
subject of soul retrieval.
And this disconnectedness
that we're
having from the
whole web of life,
I'll be curious to
see how that shows up
within the subject
of soul retrieval.
But let's talk about
it in general terms
as you learned from
the shaman and how
one can start incorporating
the disowned part's of self.
>> BEERY: So according
to some shamanic--
I can't for all
shamanic experience,
that tradition because shamanic
traditions are varied all over
the world.
They're practiced differently.
We are really trying to
make a unified globalization
of the word shamanism.
It's not McDonald's.
>> REGINA: No.
It's whatever that
culture's practice is.
>> BEERY: Exactly.
At So, for instance,
Don Jose Joaquin Pineda
was saying that he does soul
retrieval only at midnight
and in the spring because that's
the time where the soul can
reconnect and find itself.
It happened to me too, is that
sometimes during the sessions
the soul comes in
without any intervention
and people possess their
soul back and receive it.
And I can see it coming
or I see it going.
So when we talk
about soul retrieval,
we tend to think about it that
when we have trauma, accidents,
sexual abuse, physical abuse,
or any other things like that,
or when we are facing occasion
where we are not in control--
>> REGINA: Great
amounts of fear.
>> BEERY: Yes, or uncertainty.
We allow part of ourself to
leave so we would not feel
the depth of the pain and our--
>> REGINA: It's like we
disassociate from an aspect
of ourself.
>> BEERY: Exactly.
The problems with that
is that we are always
operating on the same
subject from the same age
that that soul part leaves.
>> REGINA: So we're
stuck in this pattern.
>> BEERY: Exactly.
We are always-- so
the role of the shaman
is to journey to the other
worlds as their spirit guides
to bring him to that
incident, to see
what happened at
that time, and then
to track the soul to
see where the soul is
and find it and
convince that soul
or ask the soul if it
wants to come back.
I had cases that it
didn't because they
say that the other
person is not ready.
And in many cases, they did.
And so you have to
bring this back,
blow it into the
person's heart and crown
and reunite the
person with its soul.
And that's not the end
of it because now you
have to start to get
part of the integration.
The person that received that
needs to acknowledge that.
And he needs to work through
it, through journey work,
through-- I give people to
adopt a doll in their shape,
to take care of it for a period
of time or other techniques,
to get used to it.
So some people-- the
expression of that
is that some people feel
the most joyous time
off their life, like their
childhood was given them back.
Some people feel-- like
another client of mine,
she stopped drinking.
She was addicted, alcoholic.
So there are many
different-- but you
have to remember that
once the soul is back,
it's your responsibility to be
the great host, which brings me
to something that is very
important because a lot
of people come to shamans hoping
that he will do it to them,
that they will just bring
their body, lay down,
he'll do some magic
tricks, and it will happen.
And like Ipupiara used
to say, 50% of healing
comes from the earth,
Pachamama, mama tierra.
40% comes from the client.
And 10% comes from the shaman.
And he said that
mostly to remind
us, the healers, that we are
only there to facilitate,
not to heal.
And it's not really up to us.
And I think that it's also
important in the soul retrieval
process that people
have to do the work.
They have to really want it.
They can't come to
magicians to spit
on them to make them better.
That's not healing.
>> REGINA: They have to
participate in their own
recovery.
>> BEERY: They have to want it.
They have to be committed to it.
And I saw in my
work, I saw, when
people are committed,
the miracle that happens.
I have a woman I've been
working with for 12 years now.
She came to me when
she was in total panic.
Three times a week she
was completely gone.
She couldn't operate
in the world.
She was a teacher for
children, retired.
And we turned it all around.
We did a soul retrieval.
We found the cause of it.
We brought the soul back.
She started to create, to paint.
Not only that.
She'd paint, but she started to
show in galleries and museums.
And she 60s.
Now she's is 70-something.
But her life shapeshifted
through this soul retrieval
and this healing.
And now she comes to me,
we just talk about family
because there's nothing much in
the original reason she came.
But she is committed.
She's maintaining.
And she does whatever
we worked on.
She does her homework.
>> REGINA: You know, this
conversation is just flying,
time-wise.
We have a few minutes left here.
We have a lot to cover,
but we're not going to.
OK?
People can read the book.
We're touching on enough to
get a feeling about what you're
about and your work is about.
Just very quickly,
maybe we can, before we
go to the ways in
which people can start
igniting their own
capacities, is the notion
of house clearing, of
making sure your space is
clear of any, maybe,
negative influences.
>> BEERY: We have to remember
that when we are walking,
there is this eggshell
energy all around us,
where we're carrying all of
these energies and spirit.
And we take it with us to
every room, every place,
every office we visit.
And every time that somebody
walks into your space,
they bring their energy, too.
And there are many times you
sit next to somebody on the bus,
and you feel that
energy coming to you.
And you were just
fine before, right?
And something changed.
So the same thing
happened in the house.
And I can tell you stories--
your hair will stand up--
what happened in homes and the
miracles of house clearing.
>> REGINA: So really
quickly, how do we do that?
>> BEERY: So the same way
that you do the la limpia,
the cleansing ceremony, the
Ecuadorian Andes ceremony which
you blow trago and you blow fire
and smoke and tobacco and we
clap with your stones and with
your bells and sing the song
and the chants and all that.
That's the same
thing you do at home.
Basically, you want to
shake and move this energy
so the energy will start
flowing outside the window,
outside the door.
You have to put green
plants in your home.
Green plants are very important
to absorb negative energies.
There is a lot of
techniques you can do.
But home and house
office cleansing
is very important
for the well-being
of the people who live there.
>> REGINA: So we can use sage.
We can use our little
Tibetan chimes.
We can use clapping, anything
that creates percussive sound
and smoke.
>> BEERY: Especially under
the bed and the corners.
>> REGINA: Oh, thank you.
Yeah, the corners.
>> BEERY: And especially
in the kitchen.
And especially in places where
energy cannot move because you
have to remember that negative
energy is heavy energy.
It sinks down.
And what we want, we want
to move it up, shake it,
make it lighter and flow.
Good energy's an
energy that flows.
That's what happens when
we dance, when we walk.
That's why it's so important
to do yoga and to do exercise
and to walk and to
dance because it
brings new flow into the body.
>> REGINA: Gets rid of
the stagnant energy,
energy patterns.
>> BEERY: Exactly.
>> REGINA: Very important.
OK.
Now, with our last few
minutes left, you say,
as your mentors
have said, all of us
are born shaman by nature.
It's a matter of
learning what you can do
to access these parts of self.
So at the very end
of your book, you
have a list of about
15 different things.
But maybe just give us the
top three or four things
that we can do to start
opening this process of being
able to see.
>> REGINA: I think the first
thing I would recommend is
write down your dreams, your
visions, your experiences,
your coincidence.
Write it down.
Even if you don't believe
in it, it doesn't matter.
Just write them
down and see what
they tell you about yourself
and about the people around you.
If you have a
dream that somebody
comes from your family or
your friends, call them.
Verify, if you feel
like you're stupid.
Just find out.
>> REGINA: Just touch base.
You don't have to tell
them, hey, I had a dream.
Are you OK?
>> BEERY: No, tell
them you have a dream.
>> REGINA: Oh, you
have to tell them?
OK.
So you have to put
yourself on the line.
>> BEERY: Exactly.
Don't be embarrassed.
Everybody dreams.
And you will find out that
other people had the same things
about you, too.
So meditate.
If you can't do it every
day, find a practice
that you can close your eyes,
be it 20 minutes, 30 minutes.
Just quiet.
And just instead of the
Buddhism way of meditating,
go with your visions.
See where they take you.
You will be surprised how
spirit works through you when
you allow them to speak to you.
>> REGINA: And isn't there
a little nuance in there,
that as it takes you, don't
grab and analyze and shut down
the process?
Just follow it.
>> BEERY: Exactly.
They will lead you to places
you would never believe.
>> REGINA: So just close
your eyes and let it begin.
>> BEERY: Exactly.
It's like watching a television.
And just, with your
eyes closed, dream it.
It is the most
amazing experiences.
And that's how you start
long-distance viewing.
That's how spirit stops to
send you to wherever you want.
>> REGINA: Remote
viewing in some-- I mean,
in the military parlance,
it's called remote viewing.
And I think you call it
psychonavigation here.
>> BEERY: It is a
psychonavigation because you
allow your psyche to take you,
to navigate into this world
that you may not dream to be.
But I visit my family
constantly in Israel.
And I see exactly
what happened there.
>> REGINA: I know you got chewed
out by one person who said quit
following me around.
Its invasive.
Ask permission first.
Any final thought?
Just a final thought that you
want to share with everyone?
>> BEERY: I think the most
important part for me about
writing a book is not to
be ashamed of your visions
and about your dreams and
about that part up yourself
and to understand that this
is that capacity of humans,
to vision, to dream, to be
connected to the unseen world
and understand that this
world, this other world,
directly influences who we are.
It's not your fault. You
just have to learn from it.
And that permission
is very important.
And then to understand
that it's also
very important for
our own survival
to be connected to the messages
that we receive constantly
from our ancestors,
from our other spirits,
from the spirit of nature.
They all come here, and
they all come to help.
They don't come here
to create havoc.
On the other side, there
is other spirits who do.
But we need to separate that.
But we need to be able to
negotiate between the worlds
and to see how it affects
us and to learn from it
and to learn that you
are a spiritual being,
not just what your
five senses tells you.
>> REGINA: Absolutely.
Well, I can see
why they chose you.
You have a very kind
of an innate humility
about you and this sensitivity.
And obviously, you're
a warrior or you
wouldn't have been
able to do what you did
and stand up to it
within society alone.
And you've done a beautiful
job in documenting
this for all of us.
Thank you so much.
>> BEERY: Thank you
so much for having me.
>> REGINA: Filled with personal
stories of his experiences,
"The Gift of Shamanism" is
highly personal and inspiring
as to how anyone of us can
choose a path to awakening.
You can learn more
about Itzhak's work
at shamanportal.org.
If you enjoyed
this interview, you
might also enjoy my interviews
with John Perkins, who we were
talking about a moment ago.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[THEME MUSIC]